1) What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" = String
42 = integer
09/02/1945 = DATE
98.7 = float
$15.99 = Money

2)Explain in your own words when a database might be used. Explain when a text file might be used.

We use Database for create  and  help us to manage big data.
With a data base the data to persist beyond the end of the program.

A File is good if there is no need to regularly change the data

3)Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

SQL help to work with database, manage it and change it  -  and for example Rails is creating an application who will use SQL for access to a database

4)In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

The server is asking a request to the datafile. Then the interface will provide the data requested

5)Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

a table is the Database. It has a specific name ('From')
a row is the line of the Database where are the data (where)
a column named each data for helping us to find it, its what the data represent('Select')
value is the data of our database, piece of information that the column names describe (where)

6) List 3 data types that can be used in a table.

- integer
- float
- String


7) Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

We are asking to print from our database "Payments" all the rows but only the date and amount columns

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

  We want to print from our database " Payment" the amount column and only the row when the amount is higher of 500

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

We are selecting all the column of the row where payee == 'Mega Foods'

8) Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

    The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

    SELECT email, sign-up
    FROM users
    WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

    The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

    Select userid
    FROM users
    WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

    All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

    Select *
    FROM users
    WHERE userid = 4
